# Robotics
Hardware, firmware, software and documentation for robot development using Arduino and AI2.

NOTE: the current version of firmware and the app support manual and autonomous operation of the robot.  The current version of the robot uses only one ultrasonic sensor mounted on a servo.  The servo is only used to position the ultrasonic sensor dead forward.  Testing has established that the best way for the robot to search for an open pathway is to pivot and take distance measurements forward.  When the robot encounters an obstacle in front of its travel, it stops, randomly selects to search right or left, and then pivots in the selected direction repeatedly until it either measures an open path forward or maxes out on the number of allowed pivots.  In the latter case, the robot stops and reverts to the manual made of operation.

Testing has found that the robot does not always travel a straight path when commanded to do so (both motors at the same speed and direction).  There are various reasons for this issue.  The main issue is the front pivot caster getting stuck.  However, traction issues on the wheels can also cause this problem.  If the robot hits a wall at an oblique angle, the ultrasonic rangefinder may not pick this up and the robot will continue forward into the wall, usually stalling the motors.  The next version of the robot will attempt to obviate this issue by adding two more ultrasonic sensors positioned to sense obstructions too close to the left and right sides of the robot and have the robot turn away from such an obstruction.  The servo may be eliminated in this latter version to free up Arduino pins.
